

This politician often traveled with Jack Lira, who had been escorted out of his events for drunkenness. The journalist Herb Caen published a column that linked this politician with Oliver Sipple, who thwarted an assassination attempt by grabbing Sara Jane Moore’s arm. This politician described cult leader Jim Jones as a “man of the highest character” in a letter to Jimmy Carter. This politician’s death led to Cornelius Murphy’s appointment as Chief of Police following the White Night riots. This politician delivered the “Hope” speech while campaigning against the Briggs Initiative. Dianne Feinstein discovered this politician’s body after he was shot alongside George Moscone in 1978 by Dan White. For 10 points, name this gay politician who served on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors.
ANSWER: Harvey Milk

A performance piece named for a “Singing” one of these objects involved the repeated playing of the music hall song “Underneath the Arches.” One of these objects is shown in a pair of moonlit photos subtitled “The Open Sky—11 P. M.” and “The Silhouette—4 A. M.” by Edward Steichen. Henri Cartier-Bresson photographed a blurry artist walking between two of these objects and holding another of them. The artistic duo Gilbert & George call their works “living” examples of these objects. Works like Floor Burger by Claes Oldenburg are called “soft” examples of these objects. A type of “park” or “garden” named for housing these objects includes Storm King and one outside the Hirshhorn Museum. For 10 points, what type of artwork includes The Burghers of Calais and The Thinker?
ANSWER: sculptures [accept living sculptures or The Singing Sculpture; accept statues or monuments; accept specific types of sculpture such as bronze sculptures; prompt on artworks until read]

A devil residing in a pagan Indian idol informs St. Bartholomew that a figure with this name was bound in fire by Jesus Christ in the saint’s namesake saga. In the Old English Gospel of Nicodemus, a figure with this name expels Satan after engaging him in a flyting. After crossing a river of blades, Hadding encounters a woman who rips off a rooster’s head and throws it over a wall, or grind (“grinned”), named for a figure with this name. A figure with this name, whose dish is named “hunger” and knife named “famine,” is beseeched by Hermod, who had traveled nine nights to reach her domain. The blood-stained hound Garmr stands guard over the domain of a figure with this name who demands that all living things must weep for Baldr. For 10 points, what name is given to a daughter of Loki who rules over the Norse underworld? 
ANSWER: Hel [or Hela; accept Seo Hell; accept Helgrindr]

Descriptions of “a Turkish carpet,” “a wardrobe with a mirror,” and “three big wicker chairs” open a poem by this author that remarks “we separated for a week only / And then – that week became forever.” The speaker of one of this author’s poems desires that “mother of pearl and coral, amber and ebony” and “sensual perfumes” are bestowed upon the reader, who is “destined” to arrive in the title location. The appendix of Lawrence Durrell’s novel Justine contains an English translation of a poem by this author about a place that “will always follow you” and “leave you no new places to find.” In one poem by this author, the title activity is framed as an answer to questions about “senators sitting there without legislating” and being “assembled in the forum.” For 10 points, name this poet who described the title group as “a kind of solution” in “Waiting for the Barbarians.” 
ANSWER: Constantine Cavafy

The service of a World War I brigade from this region was depicted in the novel One Year on the High Plateau. A nationalist from this region died on hunger strike after attempting to establish the Republic of Malu Entu. Echoing a medieval revolt elsewhere, a rebellion in this region used the word “chickpea” as a shibboleth. This region’s Stamenti parliament was marginalized after the Perfect Fusion created a unitary kingdom. This island was part of a kingdom governed by the Statuto Albertino, whose prime minister resigned in protest of the Armistice of Villafranca. The Count of Cavour served this island’s king Victor Emmanuel II, in whose name Giuseppe Garibaldi conquered Sicily. For 10 points, the Kingdom of Italy emerged from a kingdom named for Piedmont and what island?
ANSWER: Sardinia [or Sardegna; or Sardigna]

Rates for associative substitution of this compound in metal aquo complexes gave evidence for a pre-equilibrium step in the Eigen–Wilkins mechanism. Ligands of this compound coordinated to two pyridine-bridged ruthenium centers form a classic mixed-valence complex isolated by Carol Creutz and Henry Taube. This compound causes mercury(I) (“mercury-one”) chloride to disproportionate into a black solution, hence the name “calomel.” Planctomycetota bacteria anaerobically oxidize this compound into hydrazine, which can also be done by the Olin–Raschig process. The first maser was built with this compound due to its low barrier for umbrella inversion. This is the lightest trigonal pyramidal compound. For 10 points, the Haber–Bosch process generates what compound with formula NH3?
ANSWER: ammonia [or NH3 until read; accept ammine ligand or metal ammine complexes]

A bright blue minimalist sculpture in this city consists of nine geometric rhomboid units and is titled She Who Must Be Obeyed. Eight yellowwood trees surround a sculpture in this city that Glenna Goodacre designed to complement a piece described as “a kind of ocean.” A memorial in this city features an “inscription wall” of 14 quotes from the subject, a man who is depicted as emerging from a “stone of hope” designed by Lei Yixin. This city is also home to a sculpture by Frederick Hart depicting three soldiers standing together. That sculpture was a reaction to a nearby work that consists of two black granite walls in the shape of a V. For 10 points, name this city that is home to Maya Lin’s Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
ANSWER: Washington, D.C. [or Washington, D.C.; accept District of Columbia]

For an algebraic number field K, a quantity of this name determines which primes ramify K and equals the determinant of a trace pairing matrix. For a polynomial, this noun denotes the product of all squared differences between pairs of roots. This noun appears in the name of a supervised learning method that finds weighted sums of features that maximize the ratio of between- and within-class variances; that linear method was developed by Fisher. A complicated quantity of this name that includes the term “27 a-squared d-squared” appears in the innermost square root in Cardano’s formula. The sign of a quantity of this name determines the number of roots of a quadratic polynomial. For 10 points, what noun denotes the quantity “b-squared minus 4 a c” in the quadratic formula?
ANSWER: discriminant [accept linear discriminant analysis]

Candles are snuffed out for this place in a poem whose speaker despairs how cupping this place leaves a message that cannot be sent. Changes to this place are compared to “sorrow, joy, separation and reunion” in a poem that was written while the poet was drinking and thinking about his brother. A question about this place opens that “water melody,” which was written in a style meant to be sung. In another poem, a woman stares at this place while waiting on the jade steps. In one poem, this place makes friends with the speaker and his shadow while they sing and dance together. After looking at this place, the speaker bows his head and thinks of his homeland in the poem “Quiet Night Thoughts.” For 10 points, according to legend, Li Bai died trying to embrace the reflection of what place?
ANSWER: the moon

Osvaldo Jaeggli responded to a Postal and Pullum paper on a form of this phenomenon involving the word “to.” In contrast to Grade 1, this phenomenon is highly present in Grade 2 Braille, including Unified English Braille. A type of this phenomenon that exemplifies univerbation is represented by a coronis on a vowel and is called crasis. In French, this phenomenon occurs when a monosyllabic word ending with e caduc (“uh ka-DUKE”), or a schwa, is followed by a vowel sound. This phenomenon in Italian occurs when the words ci (“chee”) and è (“eh”) become c’è (“cheh”). In English, this phenomenon occurs when a vowel is elided and replaced with an apostrophe. For 10 points, name this linguistic phenomenon in which a word or word group is shortened by omitting sounds, such as “’twas” or “don’t.”
ANSWER: contraction [accept elision or deletion or merging or blending; prompt on shortening words; prompt on portmanteau; prompt on coalescing or merging]


Answer the following about hypervelocity stars, for 10 points each.
[10e] Hypervelocity stars are typically defined as exceeding this velocity, the velocity required for an object to overcome a central body’s gravity.
ANSWER: escape velocity
[10h] Hypervelocity stars are generated from the three-body interaction between a supermassive black hole and a binary system in a mechanism named for this astronomer. He names the hypothesized circumstellar disk that spans the interior of the Oort cloud.
ANSWER: Jack G. Hills [or Hills cloud; reject “Hill” or “Hill sphere”] 
[10m] Most hypervelocity stars were discovered by this now-retired ESA telescope, which was the successor to the Hipparcos mission. Its third data release includes data on nearly 2 billion stars, making it the most comprehensive survey of the Milky Way.
ANSWER: Gaia

Among the Igbo, this concept comprises a person’s being alongside the reincarnated ancestor and the personal will. For 10 points each: 
[10e] Chukwu is the source of what nonmaterial concept described as a “personal god” that helps guide a person’s destiny? A similarly pronounced concept in Chinese philosophy is a vital force that can be cultivated through meditative breathing.
ANSWER: chi [or ḿmúọ́; accept qi; accept xingqi and qigong]
[10m] Chi links a reincarnated spirit to inherited ancestral traits which are sometimes used by these people to identify the spirit’s past life. Among the Yoruba, opele chains are used by these people who adhere to Ifá. 
ANSWER: diviners [accept oracles; accept dibia or ogba afa; accept babaláwo; accept iyalawo or mamalawo; accept divination; prompt on mediums or seers; prompt on priests]
[10h] In some cases, Igbo reincarnation goes wrong and a miscarried infant comes back to torment the mother as one of these changeling-like spirits. Among the Yoruba, this spirit is known as the abiku. 
ANSWER: ogbanje (“ohg-BAHN-jay”)

Pax5 transcription factors play a major role in the differentiation of these cells by promoting the expression of their co-receptor CD19. For 10 points each:
[10e] Name these cells that are deficient in X-linked agammaglobulinemia (“AY-gamma-globulin-emia”), resulting in patients producing little antibodies. These cells mature in bone marrow in contrast to another class of immune cells that mature in the thymus.
ANSWER: B lymphocytes [or B cells; accept pro-B cells or pre-B cells; accept plasma cells]
[10m] One of these enzymes, first identified by Ogden Bruton, is defective in XLA. After cytokine receptors dimerize, the Janus type of these enzymes transphosphorylates each other at a namesake amino acid residue.
ANSWER: tyrosine kinases [or TKs; accept Bruton’s tyrosine kinases or BTKs; accept Janus tyrosine kinases; accept receptor tyrosine kinases or RTKs; accept non-receptor tyrosine kinases or NRTKs; prompt on kinases; prompt on JAKs or JAK-STAT signaling]
[10h] During negative selection, self-reactive B cells can enter this state of unresponsiveness to any stimulatory signal. In the absence of co-stimulatory CD28, T cells enter this state via a calcium-dependent NFAT pathway.
ANSWER: anergy [accept clonal anergy; accept anergic state; reject “dormancy”]

This academic criticized Ernst Nolte’s views on the Holocaust in the Historian’s Quarrel. For 10 points each:
[10m] Name this academic who earned his habilitation with a book that traced the replacement of representative publicity by rational-critical debate in London coffeehouses, Parisian salons, and German “table societies.”
ANSWER: Jürgen Habermas
[10e] Later scholars have applied Habermas’s theory of the public sphere to the coffeehouse culture of this city. The writer Peter Altenberg had his mail delivered to the Café Central in this Habsburg capital.
ANSWER: Vienna [or Wien]
[10h] During his time in Vienna, this man was dismissively referred to as “Mr. Bronstein, sitting over there in the Café Central.” This man adopted one of his pen names, Antid Oto, by choosing a random word from an Italian dictionary.
ANSWER: Leon Trotsky [or Lev Davidovich Trotsky]

This thinker is the first namesake of a “consensus” noting that public opinion is volatile, incoherent, and irrelevant to policy-making. For 10 points each:
[10h] Name this political scientist who co-names that consensus with Walter Lippmann. This thinker popularized the concept of a political culture in his book The Civic Culture with Sidney Verba.
ANSWER: Gabriel Almond [or Gabriel Abraham Almond]
[10e] Almond wrote an early book on a field of political science named for this term that applies Mill’s methods. An “advantage” named for this term was put forward by David Ricardo in contrast to an “absolute advantage.”
ANSWER: comparative [or comparative politics; or comparative advantage]
[10m] Almond’s conception of political culture was extended in this book by a different author. This book, written in response to The End of History, outlined its author’s conception of “fault lines” in the context of core states.
ANSWER: The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order (by Samuel Huntington)

The opening story of N. K. Jemisin’s collection How Long ’til Black Future Month?, in which social workers kill an “information-gleaner” in Um-Helat, responds to a story set in this city. For 10 points each:
[10m] The ethical writings of William James inspired a 1973 story set in what ostensibly perfect city, whose happiness depends on the perpetual suffering of a scapegoat child?
ANSWER: Omelas
[10h] Ursula Le Guin’s “The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas” inspired the title of this author’s sci-fi novel Walkaway. This blogger and Creative Commons advocate wrote the novella Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom.
ANSWER: Cory Doctorow (Doctorow confirmed that the title of Walkaway alludes to “The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas” in an email correspondence with this tournament’s American Literature editor.)
[10e] Isabel J. Kim’s Nebula-winning story “Why Don’t We Just Kill the Kid in the Omelas Hole” was published in an online magazine named for this surname. An author with this surname wrote the novel 2001: A Space Odyssey.
ANSWER: Clarke [accept Clarkesworld or Arthur C. Clarke]

This musician’s trio recorded their signature standard “Poinciana” (“poyn-see-ANN-uh”) on the live album At the Pershing: But Not for Me. For 10 points each:
[10h] Name this jazz pianist who claimed to “honor” the space between notes. This longtime friend of Miles Davis changed his name after converting to Islam.
ANSWER: Ahmad Jamal [or Frederick Russell Jones]
[10e] Jamal’s laid-back playing helped develop this subgenre of jazz that was prominent on the West Coast. This subgenre is named for a concept whose “Birth” titles a Miles Davis album.
ANSWER: cool jazz [accept Birth of the Cool]
[10m] Jamal’s 2017 performance of this standard at the Palais des Congrès (“pah-LAY day con-GRAY”) Paris begins with a three-minute-long intro. This standard, which begins Cannonball Adderley’s album Somethin’ Else, is titled for objects that “drift by the window.”
ANSWER: “Autumn Leaves”

This character describes her maid’s room as a “violation of my quotation marks” that makes her a “citation of herself.” For 10 points each:
[10h] Name this character who, after being shocked into a mystic crisis at the sight of a cockroach she killed, puts its corpse in her mouth.
ANSWER: G.H.
[10m] The Passion According to G.H. is by this author, who depicted the turmoil of Joanna in her debut novel, Near to the Wild Heart.
ANSWER: Clarice Lispector [or Chaya Pinkhasivna Lispector]
[10e] Though born in Ukraine, Lispector primarily worked and published in this country whose literature gained renown from the works of Machado de Assis.
ANSWER: Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; accept República Federativa do Brasil]

Note to moderator: Read the answerline carefully. A woman kneels in front of an empty table in the second scene of this painting, which also has a scene in which a woman rushes towards a bear. For 10 points each:
[10h] Name this painting intended to advise women in the imperial court of Empress Jia, created by Gu Kaizhi (“kai-jurr”).
ANSWER: Admonitions [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, Admonitions Scroll; accept Admonitions of the Court Instructress; accept Nüshi zhen tu]
[10e] Admonitions is a painting in this format, another of which is Zhang Zeduan’s panoramic painting Along the River During the Qingming Festival. Chinese paintings in this format were often done on long pieces of silk or paper.
ANSWER: scrolls [accept hanging scrolls; accept handscrolls]
[10m] The Admonitions scroll has been argued to have been created during this dynasty, which included an artist who developed the technique of “pomo.” Ink was used to create images of marine life by this dynasty’s “Southern School.”
ANSWER: Tang dynasty (The artist is Wang Wei.)

The Asiatic Cavalry Division, led by monarchist Roman von Ungern-Sternberg, captured Urga to temporarily restore this ruler in 1921. For 10 points each:
[10h] Name this ruler, whose rule of an autonomous theocratic state was guaranteed by the 1915 Kyakhta Agreement. His temporal rule was overthrown by a Soviet-supported rebellion under Damdin Sükhbaatar (“sookh-BAH-tur”).
ANSWER: Bogd Khan [or Bogd Gegen or Bogdo Lama; accept Agvaan Luvsan Choijinnyam Danzan Vanchüg; accept 8th Jebtsundamba Khutuktu or 8th Jebtsundamba Khutuktu]
[10m] The Bogd Khan was overthrown from 1919 to 1921 by the Anhui (“AHN-hway”) Clique, a key faction in this period of Chinese history. This period ended when Chiang Kai-shek’s Northern Expedition toppled the Beiyang Government.
ANSWER: Warlord Era [or Jūnfá Shídài]
[10e] As the Jebtsundamba Khutughtu (“JAW-tsun-TAHM-puh KHUH-tukht”), the Bogd Khan was the third-highest-ranking lama in a branch of Buddhism based in this region. Tenzin Gyatso is the last ruler to have held temporal power in this region, ruling from Lhasa.
ANSWER: Tibet [accept Tibetan Buddhism]
